[Docs] Adds external redirects section for App Router (#61052)
vercel/next.js: docs/02-app/01-building-your-application/01-routing/06-redirecting.mdx

See the [Middleware](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/middleware) documentation for more information.

> ## External redirects

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<AppOnly>

## External redirects
```

Author: Is this necessary? I don't think this page isn't surfaced in Pages router.

![CleanShot 2024-01-24 at 08 52 35@2x](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/assets/446260/0d6236df-c063-4d07-95b1-010f3217e8f1)

![CleanShot 2024-01-24 at 08 52 44@2x](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/assets/446260/e598208e-c6cd-4498-9e05-cc7d871aee87)

Author: Disregard my comment. I see that #61083 starts sharing the page between routers.

The App Router fully supports programmatic redirects to external links using the same methods mentioned above.

> [`redirect`](#redirect-function) and [`permanentRedirect`](#permanentredirect-function) work server-side and in [Server Actions](/docs/app/building-your-application/data-fetching/server-actions-and-mutations).

Author: ```suggestion
On the server-side and in [Server Actions](/docs/app/building-your-application/data-fetching/server-actions-and-mutations), [`redirect`](#redirect-function) and [`permanentRedirect`](#permanentredirect-function) methods can be used to navigate to external links:
```

> The App Router fully supports programmatic redirects to external links using the same methods mentioned above.
> 
> [`redirect`](#redirect-function) and [permanentRedirect`](#permanentredirect-function) work on the server and in [Server Actions](/docs/app/building-your-application/data-fetching/server-actions-and-mutations).

Reviewer: Can remove the second paragrah imo, since it's mentioned in the overview table. 

```suggestion
`redirect` and `permanentRedirect` can be used for external links using absolute URLs. 
```

```ts filename="app/actions.ts" switcher
'use server'

import { redirect } from 'next/navigation'

export async function checkout(data: FormData) {
  // Do validation, etc. and then redirect to hosted checkout
  redirect('https://checkout.stripe.com/c/pay')
}
```

```jsx filename="app/actions.js" switcher
'use server'

import { redirect } from 'next/navigation'

export async function checkout(data) {
  // Do validation, etc. and then redirect to hosted checkout
  redirect('https://checkout.stripe.com/c/pay')
}
```

> `router.push` and `router.replace` from [`useRouter`](#userouter-hook) work in client-side components and event handlers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In event handlers, `router.push` and `router.replace` methods [`useRouter`](#userouter-hook) can be used to navigate to external links: 
```

Author: ```suggestion
In event handlers, `router.push` and `router.replace` methods form [`useRouter`](#userouter-hook) can be used to navigate to external links:
```

```tsx filename="app/page.tsx" switcher
'use client'

import { useRouter } from 'next/navigation'

export default function Page() {
  const router = useRouter()

  return (
    <button
      type="button"
      onClick={() => router.push('https://checkout.stripe.com/c/pay')}
    >
      Checkout
    </button>
  )
}
```

```jsx filename="app/page.js" switcher
'use client'

import { useRouter } from 'next/navigation'

export default function Page() {
  const router = useRouter()

  return (
    <button
      type="button"
      onClick={() => router.push('https://checkout.stripe.com/c/pay')}
    >
      Checkout
    </button>
  )
}
```

> **Good to know**:
>
> - If you don't need to programmatically navigate a user, you should use a [`<Link>`](/docs/app/api-reference/components/link) component

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
</AppOnly>
```

'use server'

import { redirect } from 'next/navigation'

export async function checkout(data) {
  // Do validation, etc. and then redirect to hosted checkout
  redirect('https://checkout.stripe.com/c/pay')
}
```

In event handlers, `router.push` and `router.replace` methods form [`useRouter`](#userouter-hook) can be used to navigate to external links:

```tsx filename="app/page.tsx" switcher
'use client'

import { useRouter } from 'next/navigation'

export default function Page() {
  const router = useRouter()

  return (
    <button
      type="button"
      onClick={() => router.push('https://checkout.stripe.com/c/pay')}
    >
      Checkout
    </button>
  )
}
```

```jsx filename="app/page.js" switcher
'use client'

import { useRouter } from 'next/navigation'

export default function Page() {
  const router = useRouter()

  return (
    <button
      type="button"
      onClick={() => router.push('https://checkout.stripe.com/c/pay')}
    >
      Checkout
    </button>
  )
}
```

> **Good to know**:
>
> - If you don't need to programmatically navigate a user, you should use a [`<Link>`](/docs/app/api-reference/components/link) component

> </AppOnly>

Author: ```suggestion
</AppOnly>

```

See the [Middleware](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/middleware) documentation for more information.

## External redirects

> App Router fully supports programmatic external redirects to other sites (ie. `https://google.com`) using the same methods mentioned above.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The App Router fully supports programmatic redirects to external links using the same methods mentioned above.
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

> An example of when this would be useful is when generating checkout urls for hosted payment providers, such as Stripe and Shopify.

Reviewer 2: Cut

> An example of when this would be useful is when generating checkout urls for hosted payment providers, such as Stripe and Shopify.

Author: ```suggestion
```

> [`redirect`](#redirect-function) and [permanentRedirect`](#permanentredirect-function) work on the server and in [Server Actions](/docs/app/building-your-application/data-fetching/server-actions-and-mutations).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[`redirect`](#redirect-function) and [`permanentRedirect`](#permanentredirect-function) work on the server and in [Server Actions](/docs/app/building-your-application/data-fetching/server-actions-and-mutations).
```

What is "on the server" here?

Author: How about this instead?

```suggestion
[`redirect`](#redirect-function) and [`permanentRedirect`](#permanentredirect-function) work server-side and in [Server Actions](/docs/app/building-your-application/data-fetching/server-actions-and-mutations).
```

Reviewer 2: SGTM!

> [`redirect`](#redirect-function) and [permanentRedirect`](#permanentredirect-function) work on the server and in [Server Actions](/docs/app/building-your-application/data-fetching/server-actions-and-mutations).

Author: How about this instead?

```suggestion
[`redirect`](#redirect-function) and [`permanentRedirect`](#permanentredirect-function) work server-side and in [Server Actions](/docs/app/building-your-application/data-fetching/server-actions-and-mutations).
```

```ts filename="app/actions.ts" switcher
'use server'

import { redirect } from 'next/navigation'
import { createCheckout } from './payment'

export async function checkout(data: FormData) {
  // Do validation and / or generate url
  const { url } = await createCheckout(data)

> 

Reviewer 2: I wonder if we even need this, or we just keep the example super brief with the `redirect('https://google.com')` or similar.

  redirect(url) // Redirect to hosted checkout
}
```

```jsx filename="app/actions.js" switcher
'use server'

import { redirect } from 'next/navigation'
import { createCheckout } from './payment'

export async function checkout(data) {
  // Do validation and / or generate url
  const { url } = await createCheckout(data)

  redirect(url) // Redirect to hosted checkout
}
```

`router.push` and `router.replace` from [`useRouter`](#userouter-hook) work in client-side components and event handlers.

```tsx filename="app/page.tsx" switcher
'use client'

import { useRouter } from 'next/navigation'

export default function Page() {
  const router = useRouter()

  return (
    <button
      type="button"

>       onClick={() => router.push('https://checkout.stripe.com/c/pay')}

Reviewer 2: Yeah, like here!
